# Guide to Religion
## Creating a Religion

Religions in Civilization 13 are custom-made, and as a founder you can
choose its symbol, colors, focus, clergy organization and so on. First,
you will need to maximize the philosophy skill. You can do it by either
reading books by other people or writing them. Only with **2.5
philosophy** will you be able to create a new religion\! Then, click on
**Create Religion** under the **Faction** tab.

## Customization

### Symbol

The symbol you choose will be the one featured in the holy books, as
well as the totems and structures. The color will be the primary color
you choose, while the secondary color will be the background one.

### Religion Focus

#### Knowledge

Knowledge-focused religions give a 25% modifier when writing/reading
books. They give a 15% modifier when researching.

#### Combat

Combat-focused religions give a 10% buff to combat skills.

#### Production

Production-focused religions give a discount when building things. The
discount is of **1** when building anything with a cost between 4 and 9,
and **2** for 10 and above.

### Clergy Organization

When choosing the Clergy Organization type, you will be able to choose
the way your religious leaders act and what advantages and disadvantages
they have.

#### Shamans

**Requirement to join the Clergy:** NONE

**Religious power acquisition:** Totems

Shamanistic religions have the advantage of anyone being able to become
a Shaman. Shamans have a buff on medical skill (they will learn it twice
as fast), so they make good healers. Totems built around the map
increase the religion's power.

#### Cultists

**Requirement to join the Clergy:** NONE

**Religious power acquisition:** Sacrifice of Infidel Iconography

Cult-oriented religions, like Shamanistic religions, have the advantage
of not having a minimum philosophy requirement to become a member of the
Clergy. Cultists are also hidden from other religions (they don't get
the honorific title attached to their names), and can recognize each
other. Destruction of non-cultist iconography (holy books, talismans) at
an altar will increase their religious power.

#### Priests

**Requirement to join the Clergy:** 1.75 Philosophy

**Religious power acquisition:** Worshiping Sessions

Religions with Priesthood have the advantage of priests being able to
recruit without a Holy Book (needing only an altar). Priest-oriented
religions can also increase power by holding public worshiping sessions
near an altar.

#### Monks

**Requirement to join the Clergy:** 1.5 Philosophy

**Religious power acquisition:** Filled Bookcases

Religions with Monks have a big focus on knowledge - Monks will have
learning buffs, will be able to produce research books faster, and can
copy Holy Books without the need of a printing press.

#### Clerics

**Requirement to join the Clergy:** 2.2 Philosophy

**Religious power acquisition:** Conversions

Religions with Clerics, despite having very high requirements for
Clergy, enable all ordained members to write Holy Books - effectively
enabling the religion to spread under persecution where all the original
works are destroyed. Contrary to other religions, members cannot leave
clerical religions. Conversions will increase religious power greatly.

## Religious Items and Structures

### Holy Book

The religion's holy book is the main means of converting outsiders. Holy
Books can only be written by the founder (except in the case of Clerical
religions). These books can be copied using printing presses (or, in the
case of Monk religions, by hand), but be aware that if all the books are
lost, you might not be able to expand the religion further\!

### Totems and Monuments

Posters and Altars can be built. Some styles of religion might rely more
on these, like the Shamanistic religions with totems and Priesthood
religions with altars.

### Amulets and Talismans

Amulets and Talismans enable the wearer to get the religion focus
advantages.

## Conversion and Organization