# How to stay alive

Staying alive is pretty easy if you play this game often however there
are lots of things to look out for.

### Food and Water

Pretty easy to get, you can collect berries, kill animals and farm for
food. TIP: Potatos can be turned into juice which hydrates a fuck ton
also even eating raw fries fills you up well. To get water all you need
to do is get water SALTWATER CANT BE USED FOR DRINKING then put it into
a container like a copper pot, put it on a campfire or some burner with
the lid on then tada\! pour it into a mug and drink it.

### Wildlife

Most wildlife is peaceful like cows or bulls (you should keep cows and
bulls around to breed and for milk) however stuff like bears, when
unexpected can kill a whole faction to counter this simple get a weapon,
in 303 you should be able to make spears that take up a tile so you can
kill animals without getting scratched at all\!

### Nature

If you live in a temperate area of the map and its not overcrowded stay,
its one of the best biomes, plently of time to grow crops, lots of
water, tons of trees, its just great. But you know what isn't great?
living in a desert or a tundra, its just hell, you have almost no time
to grow crops, the desert has low amounts of trees and water, and the
snow biome is filled with hostile animals. However there is always a
way, if you live in a desert go to an area where there's a water bed so
you can grow crops also try to set a base up asap, hunt wildlife. If you
are in a tundra you can use a shovel to remove snow to grow plants
however there's constant blizzards so you can't make a lot of progress.
However in both regions you can both mine, one of the most important
things.