Heh, so you've chosen to Jew the people out of their money and begin
swimming in riches eh? Well, we'll tell you all about that business.

# Basics

Generally there are 2 types of playstyles commonly seen:

1.  The greedy Merchant trying to take everything they can get out of
    people
2.  The good Merchant that gives fair prices making a smaller profit.

More commonly than not, merchants try to be \#1. Which you want to be
really is up to you.

### The Good

Generally \#2 likes to learn the value of an item (what it exports for)
and charge a rate off that. Such as blacksmith selling you a musket, can
give em 80 reales for it and you'll export it for 100, thus you'll be
getting 20 reales profit. Not the biggest profit but more fair to your
customers, they might come again. In this instance the Merchant makes a
20% profit. Good ratings that should keep you in business

### The Bad

1.  1 likes to charge the most he can and have them to accept. Such as
    exporting a musket for 100 reales and paying the blacksmith maybe 40
    reales in return. 60% profit, but they're likely not gonna accept
    that as a fair price since it costs 30 iron which is 60 reales at
    least. So, you give em 60 reales and remind them that you're the
    only one they can constantly sell to since only you can export.
    Remind them of their place whenever they feel your prices aren't
    fair.

### The Ugly

Some merchants decide to skip employing farmers to grow crops or
blacksmiths to make weapons to export. They resort to scamming people
out of their money, selling them products at much higher rates than it
is to buy them, or simply looting the dead, sleeping, or pick pocketing
the living. However some of these ways can get you killed by the guards.
Greed is a powerful sin, and you can't use money when you're dead.

##### Importing

With silver/reales in your hand, you can click on the supply orders book
and put the money in. This will make it so you can click on it again
with an empty hand and it will open a list. This list contains crates
and supplies you can order. Click on the option you want and the
purchased item, crate, or mob should arrive soon by dock or shipping
area. After the option is selected it will subtract the cost directly
from the money you put in, if you haven't enough, it doesn't work.
Either way it will eject your money and you can retrieve the remaining
coins. Then just wait for it to arrive.

#### Exporting

Exporting is different. You simply hold the item you want to export, and
click on the exporting table. Then click yes and it will sell this to
the world and be consumed. Money is ejected in return. This doesn't work
for all items.